I ate here Monday night for a working dinner with a coworker. I immediately saw its reason for name, beyond the owner's fandom of the show of the same name: the tablet setup are nearly all communal long tables. There're rather few non-shared tables which is fine as not only is NYC filled with such setup but there's a liveliness in the Columbia area vibe which prefers this setup. There's a shortage of such nice sit-down restaurants in the Columbia area so this place is not only capitalizing on its presence but doing so with great style and flare.

I ordered the beef burger which was very juicy, perfectly lean, well sauced, cooked as desired (medium-well, for those who wonder), and paired with a dill pickle, a handmade cole slaw that lacked mayo (which is good as mayo's pure trans-fat), and a spindle of fries. My coworker got the salmon sandwich, same review applies.

Awesome bar alongside, but we didn't patronize it. Vast amounts of seating and an open kitchen where tons of food is prepared live makes for a fun environ.

I accidentally left my headphones, called to ask if it was found, and fetched them the day later. The staff were so helpful, kind, and soft-spoken about recovering and returning it that I'm duly humbled. Thanks, all!
The food here is quite good, and I have no complaints in that area. The reason for only two stars is the cost of that food--OMG are they overpriced. My wife and I went here for breakfast. We each ordered blueberry pancakes and a cup of coffee--no fresh fruit, no juice, no bacon. The pancakes were $13 and the coffee was $4, so the initial bill was $34. The tax was $3, and I left a tip of $6--resulting in a final total of $43 for a breakfast of flapjacks and coffee. Now I know this is NY and costs here are higher--but $43!  Ugh!  There are a lot of nice places in the city where you can get a very good breakfast for 1/3rd to 1/2 less than Community. I recommend you seek them out.
Service is great - our water was also filled, our coffee was replenished at appropriate times. The attention to the details of the flavors in the food is impeccable. The accompanying sauces and jams were so memorable and delicious! 

Initially, we went for brunch in the early afternoon, but ended up staying for appetizers and split a bottle of wine.  The staff did not make us feel guilty at all, but welcomed us to stay until their dinner hour started. During the whole time, not one waiter came over to encourage us to pay our bill and leave. Instead, they filled our coffees and water. Speaking of coffee - their black drip coffee from a roaster in Brooklyn is delicious! Down to the last drop - it was smooth, nutty, and not bitter even cold. 

Details of the food, including the presentation of each dish. The biscuit sandwich was healthy-ish as they utilized whole wheat flour. The sausage was not fatty at all and the meat patty - although a little smaller when compared to the biscuit (meat:bread ratio) was small, it went was so tasty with the tomato jam, as well as the perfectly cooked eggs!  The raspberry preserve was so fresh! Not overly sweet and definitely enjoyed the seeds within the preserve.  The 7 grain waffle with the fresh berries, butterscotch sauce (maple glaze?) with FRESH whipped cream was THE BEST dish there.  There was a raspberry sauce beautifully spread on the plate that added a nice tartness to the whole bite. Pancakes were fluffy and they used real, non-frozen blueberries which I loved!  The sauce that came with it was definitely different than the waffle glaze, so it was so tasty to discover the flavors within the glaze. 

Community is definitely one of my favorite, non-boozy brunch spots in the UWS/Morningside! Will go back!
Community is a brunch place next to Columbia. I came here one day to meet up with my cousin who studies at Columbia. Seated around 10 mins on a cozy Sat morning, not too bad. The interior was normal, nothing fancy, but we enjoyed window seats and a tiny desk instead of the long family style tables at the center of the restaurant which gives limited privacy. I really like the hanging lights from the ceiling which is quite cute. The ground leveled glass windows allow you to see the views outside- it is a nice change from the busy pedestrians and giant high rise buildings view of the typical New York street cues in Midtown. Morningside feels more like a college town with older residential building and quieter streets. 
Despite the 3.5 stars I was pleasantly surprised at the food here. I thought it was delicious! Much better than my experience at Stephanie's at Newbury in Boston or even many of the brunch places I've been in LA. 
We ordered the morning specials : 7 grains waffle and truffle egg dish. 
-7 grains waffle: had vanilla cream, raspberry, cherry, and toasted nuts. Tasted slightly more chewy than the usual waffle with flour, and on top there was marinated peach slices and cream. I really like how it wasn't hard and overly sweet- especially how the toasted nuts added a level of crunchiness to the heaviness of the cream. 

- The truffle egg dish: had sausage, potatoes, some leafy greens, sautéed mushrooms, and poached egg on top. To be honest I  could not tasted the truffle at all, besides the garlic and the pepper and the salt; however with this mix it can hardly go wrong. It was flavorful and not overly salty. 

The only thing I guess I can "complain" is that the dishes were small. 
Bill came up to be around 50, which isn't exactly cheap considering how small the portions are- but justifiable still due to the taste.
Overpriced, oversized, oversweet... Oh wait, this is America.

The pancakes with banana and walnut were okay. They could have done without the maple butter and walnuts and would have been better with maple syrup. I'd rather have paid half price for half the portion.

Bottomless coffee was standard.

The waitress serving our table was polite and courteous considering how many customers she was dealing with. 

Having seen the title of this place, I did expect somewhere a little cosier, trendier, more rustic and more inviting. The interior was a little canteenish and there were only a couple of juices on the menu. I wouldn't go back at these prices and with these crowds.
"I have a degree from Columbia, and now I have to get one from America." - Jeff Winger, Community.

I came here with my friend who also is a huge fan of the show "Community", which used to be aired on NBC then got cancelled and then re-birthed on Yahoo! Screen. That's right, Yahoo! Screen. 

Sigh, oh how I miss the golden age of that glorious, glorious show.

My friend, however, is actually pursuing a REAL degree from Columbia University--not Colombia the country, unlike our hateable yet lovable ex-lawyer who attended Greendale Community College.

She chose this place because of the name--I mean come on, can't get more fitting than that--and because of its proximity to Columbia's campus. Community Food & Juice is literally a few blocks away, so it's perfect for students.

On a nice New York morning, we had brunch and got to talk about everything from racist experiences to the TV show we can't quite get over. 

The food? My chocolate pancakes were pretty darn good and pretty darn rich. I don't know what I was expecting. In fact, the "syrup"--not even sure what it is (apple?) was kind of overkill because the pancakes and chocolate were far sweet enough.

I also got a shiso mojito which sounds fancy--and it better be for the $11 I paid for it. Flor de Cana aged white rum, fresh lime juice, shiso-mint simple syrup, yuzu splash, muddled mint, and crushed ice made up the drink that Jeff Winger would have called a "kid's drink".

It was pretty strong but the shiso-mint did come through, so it was worth it (I'm rationalizing the price right now).

All in all, a pleasant experience with nice service and nice company. It's not every day I get to go to New York, take some subways to meet a friend, eat some good food, get a tour of a top university, and walk away with my wallet much lighter.

On that note,

"It said market price.  What market are you shopping at!?!?!" - Troy Barnes

Man I love that show.
We stopped in for lunch. We had ordered three things the beet salad, the rice bowl and the veggie burger. The place was packed. Even though it was packed service was very good. The beat salad and rice bowl were delicious. Although we thought the veggie burger could've used another flavor component.
Solid breakfast place in Morningside Heights.
I came here with a friend - we were seated promptly and service was attentive. The decor was beautiful and the lighting was warm - a great place for a brunch date. 

I ordered the Country Breakfast and the eggs were delicious and fluffy, the biscuit was moist and flavorful, the carrot hash browns were warm and comforting, and the ham was sweet and juicy. 

Pricing was around $15 per person, which was reasonable for the quality and amount of food, especially considering it's New York. The restaurant is within walking distance of Columbia, and I would recommend for a nice brunch in the area!
Nice experience there.
My friend n me went there early to enjoy pancake with fresh juice n on site coffee.
Thanks to the kind service as well,i will remember this restaurant as a Columbian.
This place is really good for breakfast and has great pancakes, sausages, eggs. Although you really have to spring ti get in, since there are very big lines to eat.
